<<< Generic Introduction >>>

I'm Piper Thunstrom, a senior software engineer at Zipari where I mostly
build web APIs; a community organizer in the Python community, where I've
helped run multiple meetup groups and helped organize a conference or two; 
and an open source maintainer of a couple of game libraries. Probably
unsurprisingly, I also make small video games I release on itch most of them
with the code available on github.

Python Gaming rocks: Python game development is approaching something of a
rebirth right now and I want to encourage more folks to dig into the amazing
ecosystem. You might be asking "Why Python?" For me, I started programming 
after college by working my way through Al Sweigart's Inventing Games with
Python and Pygame. It was the first step to becoming a software engineer
(from a business focused background) and let me fall in love with Python as
a language. Since then I've used Python game dev as my sandbox for learning
new software related skills throughout my career.

For example, recently I experimented with a number of APIs for behavior
trees in python, open sourcing the result as Misbehave. One game jam, many
years ago now, I built a rudimentary MVC framework from scratch. It was not
one of my brightest ideas: I didn't finish the game, but that code did
inspire the original prototype of PursuedPyBear (which I'll be calling ppb
from here on), a game engine designed for education and flattening the
learning curve for game making.

So let's talk about the rebirth I mentioned. My co-maintainer, AstraLuma
started a great website intended to compile all of the great tools Python
has for game development, and I'd like to briefly go over them.

---
run-times:
1. 1:23
---